>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
let's talk a little bit about the strings.
That is something that we
are going to deal a lot.
First, remember, we create a PHP file.
The next first step,
what is, opening the tag.
If you don't do that,
you don't have a PHP file.
I mean, you have a PHP file,
but everything you're writing will
be just literal output, okay?
Okay, so strings, so
you already thought that I can
just create the title of this
course is PHP fundamentals.
Okay, so we just assign a string,
but double quotes,
single quotes, is that the same?
Well, let's dig into that,
we have single quotes.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay?
That works as well, and double quotes,
but they're not exactly the same, why?
I can for example say that,
I will create a message here,
and I can say, the welcome to, and
I wanna concatenate with
the name of the title.
Okay, so how do you concatenate?
Well, I'm pretty sure that
you're expecting this, right?
So you say +title.
But this is PHP, so
the answer sometimes is not so simple.
We don't have the plus operator for
concatenation in PHP.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Why did you say
no, no, yeah, I'm feeling your pain, so
you need to get used to this,
yeah, I take some time.
I remember myself when I was switching
languages from JavaScript to PHP
that I was forgetting about that and
I said, what is the operator?
Dot, we concatenate
the strings with the dot,
okay, it takes time to get used to, but
it's not plus it's dot.
Actually, it's not the only language that
is not using the plus for concatenation,
there were others, Objective-C,
and others where it was different.
But yeah, now all the languages
try to use the plus, okay?
Remember that it's not actually
concatenation does not really exist,
it's actually created in a third string,
a new string.
But instead of doing that,
and you will like this one,
instead of doing that, I can also
create another version of the message.
So message2, so maybe you want, hey,
do we have a way to do something like,
I mean, in JavaScript,
we have this idea, another template
string, where you can do the same thing.
Well, here in PHP, we can do this,
let me show you first.
By the way, I know it's wrong, so
if you know PHP, maybe you're saying,
hey, Max, that's wrong,
yeah, but give me a sec.
So, if I execute this, strings.php,
I'm getting welcome to dollar sign,
title, so, yeah, it's not working, right?
Why is it not working?
Because I'm using single quotes, and
that's the big difference between
single and double quotes.
Double quotes will let
you use interpolation.
Interpolation is when you have
a variable or an expression used it,
but it should contain
a variable expression.
I will get into that in a second,
in a string, so now if I execute this,
it says, welcome to PHP fundamentals.
So then, we don't need to use
the dot all the time, [LAUGH] okay,
we can just use double quotes for
your strings and
then just put the name of
your variable in sign, and
the dollar sign will say,
this is the output, okay?
>> Speaker 2: So that only works with
the double quotes, you're saying?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Double quotes,
yeah, only with double quotes.
If you do single quotes,
it will not interpolate anything inside.
So the string that you put is a string
that you get in the output as a literal.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, would you generally
only use the double quotes then in-
>> Maximiliano Firtman: I mean,
that's a first reaction.
What's the problem of
always using double quotes?
Maybe performance,
maybe this might not be a big deal,
but when you have double quotes, the
interpreter expects that there might be
an interpolation inside, so I need to
check if there is or not an interpolation.
And in single quotes,
it's a literal, so it's it notes,
it doesn't need to search inside,
so it's about performance.
And that's why, yeah, but if you look at
PHP code out there, probably no one care
a lot about that, so yeah, most developers
are just using double quotes and
just in case, what they're not, they
don't think about the performance part.
Again, it's not a big performance issue,
right,
it's a couple of milliseconds that might
take more if you have a double quote,
a string, and no interpolation inside.
So do we have any other type of string?
Yeah, we have two more, that will
look probably all for a lot of you.
So, we don't have the back tick, so
if you're coming from JavaScript,
no back tick, okay.
No triple double quotes,
some other languages as well, let go, no.
We have this, we can create a variable
like it can be a, let's say a JSON.
Because how can I make a JSON?
Because a JSON, as a string,
let's talk about string,
I'm not talking about the JSON format,
but as a string, right?
It's typically one multiline, right?
So I wanna go multiline and
I wanna do a lot of stuff inside.
So, how can I do that?
Well, the way to do that is using
this syntax that is coming.
So, the double quotes and the single
quotes maybe are coming from C, Java,
the JavaScript to get from that part,
this one, the one you will see now,
I'm not sure if you have seen that before.
So in fact, let me point you
to the documentation, php.net.
We have a special for strings now, but
then should be inside types strings.
So you have the heredoc syntax,
the nowdoc syntax, is it there what?
So I here is the thing case
a third way to delimit a string
is this syntax, so
let me explain that one,
you start with three less characters and
a name, an identifier.
Typically, we use upper case identifiers,
but it's not mandatory.
We can say,
we are going to write JSON, okay, but
it can be anything, like PRETTYJSON,
wherever, any anything.
Then you can write code and
for example JSON,
let's take any JSON sample from the web,
any weird one, doesn't matter.
And when PHP knows or expect that to end,
when you put the identifier again, so
for example here,
I say PRETTYJSON, that's the end.
So what, let's remove some lines so
we can see the beginning at the end.
This is how it looks like, so you start
with this, with an identifier, and
then when the identifier repeat somewhere
in the string, it means, it's ending here.
>> Speaker 3: Does it validate that
it's actually valid JSON depending
on-
>> Maximiliano Firtman: No, no,
that's a string.
At this point,
this is just a string, okay?
So it's just a string.
We will talk about JSON parsing later,
but this is just a string, okay?
And to make things even weirder,
yeah, it can get weirder.
Let me remove this one,
I wanna increase the font size one point.
So what if I wanna take message2 and
put it here?
Can I interpolate like we did
with double quotes before,
like using dollar sign, message2?
So actually, no, so if I try this,
even if I try to do an echo,
by the way, echo of JSON,
this PRETTYJSON needs a semicolon,
cuz it's ending that line, that string.
So if I try to do this, okay,
I'm getting the output.
Welcome to fundamentals, that's because
I saved it, yeah, I didn't save.
Okay, so actually,
the difference between single quotes and
double quotes happen here
if you put the identifier
in single quotes or without quotes.
So that's weird, I mean, it is weird.
And we were looking at
the documentation here.
This is the difference,
are when you go at the top,
we have the heredoc is the one
without the identifier.
Here they are using END, but
any identifier works here.
And the other one is called the nowdoc.
The nowdoc is the one with single quotes.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: It is just that,
okay, I mean, it's a weird thing, but
it's not the creation of PHP, okay,
this is coming from other places.
That's why PHP sometimes feels
like a fusion of different
languages working together.
>> Speaker 4: This is
a lot like Unix shell.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah,
it's coming from there,
it's coming from Unix shell,
it's coming from there.
In fact, it's the same name, then these
names, these two names, heredoc and
nowdoc, are coming from there.
We use this only on some specific
situations like PRETTYJSON,
that we don't typically write
a JSON like this, we use a parser,
writing a SQL query that is multiline,
a very complex SQL query.
So, those situations, okay,
it's not so common, to be honest.
Most of the time we use just single
quotes, double quotes, and that's all.
So, just as I remember,
single quotes won't do interpolation,
double quotes are doing interpolations,
and
if you wanna concatenate,
it's the dot operator, not the plus.
I think those are the most important
parts regarding string management.
Okay, so something else that
might be important here is that,
you may be, if you want, for
example, let's say year 2024,
and you may wanna add expressions as well.
So what if you want to say year +1?
What will happen here?
Will it pre 2024 + 1 or
2025, well, actually,
this is just going to interpolate
until here, so there.
And then, if you wanna change that,
you can use kind
of a code block here like that,
and then it works like that.
And then you have an expression inside.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, it's not
common, to be honest, it's not common.
We typically, I mean, it's common
in another languages, but in PHP,
we don't use that a lot.